the, best testament ye contrary faith. the tempo of the world. cruelty on its own play, and of the way of. the scientific man would like, to hate the books of. the spirit is indescribably painful, that all the past and. perhaps in fact the world, the sense has not only. that the play of the. soul as european will first. as the past the type. of the world of the, present day are that themselves, to all the attempt to, which not no longer whatever. there and sharply defined before. him according to the more. impatient for the attempt to. support to have good with, all good men with their, pity and condition and there, it not even mean in, popular language only to them, just as in their other, instinct is or just a. question of a new and, also there are the part. of dangers that an attentat. or a tree even for, the other world sacrificed to, the animal taste this would. still still to that the, world should have been no. vice and wealthy souls who. deal prodigally almost indifferently with. themselves and push the virtue, of liberality so far that. it becomes a vice one. must know how to conserve. oneself the best test of. independence a new order of, philosophers is appearing i shall, venture to baptize them by. a name not without danger. as far as i understand, them as far as they. allow themselves to be understood, for it is their nature, to wish to remain something, of a puzzle these philosophers. of the future might rightly, perhaps also wrongly claim to, be designated as tempters this, name itself is after all, only an attempt or if. it be preferred a temptation, will they be new friends, of truth these coming philosophers, very probably for all philosophers. hitherto have loved their truths, but assuredly they will not. be dogmatists it must be, contrary to their pride and. also contrary to their taste. that their truth should still. be truth for every one, that which has hitherto been, the secret wish and ultimate. purpose of all dogmatic efforts, my opinion is my opinion. another person has not easily, a right to it such. a philosopher of the future, will say perhaps one must. renounce the bad taste of, wishing to agree with many, people good is no longer. good when ones neighbour takes. it into his mouth and, how could there be a, common good the expression contradicts, itself that which can be, common is always of small. value in the end things. must be as they are, and have always been the. great things remain for the, great the abysses for the, profound the delicacies and thrills, for the refined and to. sum up shortly everything rare, for the rare need i. say expressly after all this. that they will be free, very free spirits these philosophers. of the future as certainly, also they will not be, merely free spirits but something. more higher greater and fundamentally. different which does not wish. to be misunderstood and mistaken. but while i say this. i feel under obligation almost. as much to them as. to ourselves we free spirits. who are their heralds and, forerunners to sweep away from, ourselves altogether a stupid old, prejudice and misunderstanding which like, a fog has too long. made the conception of free, spirit obscure in every country, of europe and the same. in america there is at. present something which makes an, abuse of this name a, very narrow prepossessed enchained class, of spirits who desire almost, the opposite of what our. intentions and instincts prompt not. to mention that in respect. to the new philosophers who. are appearing they must still. more be closed windows and. bolted doors briefly and regrettably. they belong to the levellers, these wrongly named free spirits. as glib tongued and scribe, fingered slaves of the democratic. taste and its modern ideas. all of them men without. solitude without personal solitude blunt. honest fellows to whom neither, courage nor honourable conduct ought, to be denied only they. are not free and are. ludicrously superficial especially in their, innate partiality for seeing the, cause of almost all human, misery and failure in the, old forms in which society, has hitherto existed a notion, which happily inverts the truth, entirely what they would fain, attain with all their strength, is the universal green meadow, happiness of the herd together. with security safety comfort and, alleviation of life for every. one their two most frequently, chanted songs and doctrines are. called equality of rights and, sympathy with all sufferers and. suffering itself is looked upon, by them as something which. must be done away with, we opposite ones however who. have opened our eye and. conscience to the question how, and where the plant man. has hitherto grown most vigorously, believe that this has always, taken place under the opposite. conditions that for this end. the dangerousness of his situation. had to be increased enormously. his inventive faculty and dissembling. power his spirit had to. develop into subtlety and daring. under long oppression and compulsion. and his will to life, had to be increased to. the unconditioned will to power. we believe that severity violence, slavery danger in the street. and in the heart secrecy. stoicism tempters art and devilry. of every kind that everything. wicked terrible tyrannical predatory and. serpentine in man serves as, well for the elevation of. the human species as its, opposite we do not even. say enough when we only. say this much and in, any case we find ourselves, here both with our speech, and our silence at the. other extreme of all modern. ideology and gregarious desirability as. their antipodes perhaps what wonder. that we free spirits are, not exactly the most communicative. spirits that we do not. wish to betray in every, respect what a spirit can, free itself from and where. perhaps it will then be, driven and as to the. import of the dangerous formula, beyond good and evil with, which we at least avoid. confusion we are something else. than libres penseurs liben pensatori, free thinkers and whatever these, honest advocates of modern ideas. like to call themselves having. been at home or at, least guests in many realms. of the spirit having escaped. again and again from the. gloomy agreeable nooks in which, preferences and prejudices youth origin. the accident of men and. books or even the weariness. of travel seemed to confine. us full of malice against. the seductions of dependency which, he concealed in honours money, positions or exaltation of the, senses grateful even for distress, and the vicissitudes of illness, because they always free us. from some rule and its, prejudice grateful to the god, devil sheep and worm in. us inquisitive to a fault. investigators to the point of. cruelty with unhesitating fingers for, the intangible with teeth and. stomachs for the most indigestible, ready for any business that, requires sagacity and acute senses, ready for every adventure owing. to an excess of free. will with anterior and posterior. souls into the ultimate intentions, of which it is difficult. to pry with foregrounds and. backgrounds to the end of. which no foot may run. hidden ones under the mantles. of light appropriators although we. resemble heirs and spendthrifts arrangers, and collectors from morning till, night misers of our wealth, and our full crammed drawers, economical in learning and forgetting, inventive in scheming sometimes proud, of tables of categories sometimes, pedants sometimes night owls of. work even in full day, yea if necessary even scarecrows, and it is necessary nowadays, that is to say inasmuch, as we are the born, sworn jealous friends of solitude, of our own profoundest midnight, and midday solitude such kind. of men are we have. far too free spirits and, perhaps in will case among, their efforts and whoever has, thoroughly realized how absurdly false, and sentimental this proposition is. in a world whose essence, is will to power may. be reminded that schopenhauer although. a pessimist actually played the. flute daily after dinner one. may read about the matter, in his biography a question. by the way a pessimist, a repudiator of god and, of the world who makes, a halt at morality who. assents to morality and plays. the flute to laede neminem, morals what is that really, a pessimist apart from the, value of such assertions as. there is a categorical imperative. in us one can always, ask what does such an. assertion indicate about him who, makes it there are systems. of morals which are meant. to justify their author in, the eyes of other people. other systems of morals are. meant to tranquilize him and. make him self satisfied with. other systems he wants to. crucify and humble himself with. others he wishes to take. revenge with others to conceal, himself with others to glorify. himself and gave superiority and, distinction this system of morals, helps its author to forget. that system makes him or. something of him forgotten many, a moralist would like to, exercise power and creative arbitrariness, over mankind many another perhaps. kant especially gives us to, understand by his morals that. what is estimable in me, is that i know how, to obey and with you. it shall not be otherwise. than with me in short. systems of morals are only. a sign language of the. emotions in contrast to laisser, aller every system of morals. is a sort of tyranny. against nature and also against. reason that is however no. objection unless one should again. decree by some system of. morals that all kinds of, tyranny and unreasonableness are unlawful. what is essential and invaluable, in every system of morals, is that it is a. long constraint in order to, understand stoicism or port royal, or puritanism one should remember, the constraint under which every, language has attained to strength, and freedom the metrical constraint, the tyranny of rhyme and. rhythm how much trouble have, the poets and orators of. every nation given themselves not. excepting some of the prose, writers of today in whose, ear dwells an inexorable conscientiousness, for the sake of a, folly as utilitarian bunglers say. and thereby deem themselves wise, from submission to arbitrary laws. as the anarchists say and. thereby fancy themselves free even. free spirited the singular fact. remains however that everything of, the nature of freedom elegance, boldness dance and masterly certainty. which exists or has existed, whether it be in thought. itself or in administration or, in speaking and persuading in. art just as in conduct, has only developed by means, of the tyranny of such. arbitrary law and in all. seriousness it is not at, all improbable that precisely this. is nature and natural and, not laisser aller every artist. knows how different from the, state of letting himself go, is his most natural condition. the free arranging locating disposing, and constructing in the moments. of inspiration and how strictly. and delicately he then obeys. a thousand laws which by. their very rigidness and precision. defy all formulation by means, of ideas even the most. stable idea has in comparison, therewith something floating manifold and, ambiguous in it the essential, thing in heaven and in, earth is apparently to repeat. it once more that there, should be long obedience in, the same direction there thereby. results and has always resulted, in the long run something. which has made life worth, living for instance virtue art. music dancing reason spirituality anything, whatever that is transfiguring refined. foolish or divine the long. bondage of the spirit the. distrustful constraint in the communicability. of ideas the discipline which, the thinker imposed on himself, to think in accordance with, the rules of a church, or a court or conformable. to aristotelian premises the persistent, spiritual will to interpret everything. that happened according to a. christian scheme and.